# ExpViz
ExpViz is a library that will provide visualizations and verbal explanations to the prediction explanations generated by largely used Machine Learning model explanation methods, such as SHAP and LIME. It is a wrapper library with the objective of having the most used explanation methods all in one place, and also having their explanations and visualizations generated using the same sintax and making the process of comparing the explanations and choosing the best one easier. It is also useful for researchers who, like me, happen to be studying ML model explanations and explanation visualizations and need to be able to analize different explanation methods and visualizations more efficiently. Additionally, along with the visualizations, we provide a textual explanation of the exhibited visualization to help the user to understand the explanation

The first version of ExpViz supports the SHAP and LIME methods, since these two are some of the most popular methods and have been largely used in the XAI field. Future versions will possibly cover other XAI methods. 

## Motivation
Explainable AI has been a growing field over the past years and several methods have been developed with the objective to improve Machine Learning models' interpretability by providing explanations for the models' behavior or for specific instance predictions. However, these novel methods have been proposed with the claim that their explanations are interpretable, without actually proving that claim. Having that in mind, the motivation of ExpViz was first to facilitate the work of researchers that are studying how visualizations of the explanations can or can not help in improving interpretability, and also to try to take another step towards better interpretability by giving a verbal explanation to the existing visualizations.

## Installation
1. Clone this repository using the command
```
git clone git@github.com:biancamcunha/ProjetoFinalDeProgramacao.git
```
2. Go to the root directory of the project and use the command
```
python setup.py install
```

## Brief overview of the XAI methods covered by ExpViz
### SHAP

### LIME

## Architecture
ExpViz is composed by an interface called Explainer from which all the encompassed explanation methods will inherit and implement the base functions. This structure makes the solution more scalable, since it is easy to add a new method, by just creating a new class and inheriting it from Explainer. Each method class will implement the base functions by using their own sintax in order to generate the explanations and visualizations. 

IDEIA
Criar uma classe interface de visualização e uma classe concreta para cada tipo de grafico. Cada tipo de grafico tera uma explicacao parametrizada para ser personalizada de acordo com os dados e o modelo.

## Visualizations
### Types of visualizations

### How to choose an appropriate visualization
